- [Instructor] In this lesson,
we'll add a StepExecutionListener
to a new Spring batch job
that mimics the real-life task
of preparing flowers for delivery.
If we look at the logic for this job,
we're going to first start out by selecting flowers.
If the flowers do not have thorns,
we're going to proceed to arrange them.
However, if they do have thorns,
we need to remove them
and then begin the arrangement of our flowers.
The StepExecutionListener that we'll be creating
is going to determine whether or not the flowers
have thorns so that we can appropriately proceed
to the next step.
So if we look at our linkedin.batch application class,
you'll see that I have placed the configuration
for our new job within it.
So here we see the prepareFlowers job
and currently, it's configured to run two steps,
the selectFlowersStep
and the arrangeFlowersStep.
You'll see that the steps are defined higher up
within our class
and then you'll also see that we have the removeThornsStep.
This is the step that we're going to conditionally invoke
pending the results of the x status provided
by our StepExecutionListener.
Now let's go ahead and start building
that StepExecutionListener.
We're just going to create a new class
and we're going to name this class
the FlowersSelectionStepExecutionListener.
This class is going to implement
the StepExecutionListener interface
so we'll go ahead and select that
and then build our new class.
And the first thing you'll notice
is that we have two methods
that are added to our class
and these are the methods defined
on the StepExecutionListener interface.
The fist is the beforeStep method.
This is going to execute before our step
is actually executed
and we're not going to be using this
but I will add some console output
so that we can see where it falls
within the batch lifecycle.
So we'll just say Executing before step logic
and then we're going to do the same in the afterStep method.
This executes after our step has executed
so we'll just change our output here
to Executing after step logic
and within the body of this method,
we're going to actually grab a job parameter
that is supplied to our job
and it's going to be the type of flowers
that we are going to be working with.
So we can grab the job parameters
from the stepExecution
and using the getString method,
we can supply the name of the job parameter.
In this case, it's going to be type
and that represents the type of flowers
that we're going to be working with.
Now, depending upon the type of flowers,
we're going to return a particular exit status.
So we're just going to do a simple check
to see if these are roses
because we know they have thorns.
And if they are roses,
we will use the ExitStatus constructor
and create a custom ExitStatus.
So in this case, it's going to be TRIM REQUIRED.
And then if they're not roses,
we're going to build another ExitStatus
is going to be NO TRIM REQUIRED.
So it's pretty simple.
And at this point,
we have our logic for our StepExecutionListener in place.
Now, let's head back over to our configuration
and at this point,
we need to go ahead and register that StepExecutionListener
as a bean.
So I'm just going to add a bean
and we'll declare that this bean
is of type StepExecutionListener.
And then we'll give that ExecutionListener a name.
In this case, I'm going to go ahead
and I'll name this the selectFlowerListener
and then within the body of that method,
all we need to do
is return our FlowerSelectionStepExecutionListener.
Okay, so we have the StepExecutionListener registered
as a bean.
Now we need to inject it
into the configuration of our step.
So we'll go to the selectFlowersStep
where we can register this
and all we need to do
is before we build this step,
we're going to use the listener method
and here we can supply our new listener
which is the selectFlowerListener.
That will cause the listener
and its methods to be executed
before and after our step.
Now, the final thing that we need to do,
you'll remember that we are returning
that conditional ExitStatus
and that's going to allow us
to conditionally execute our step
that removes the thorns
from our particular flowers.
So after we perform the selectFlowersStep,
we want to check the ExitStatus
to see if it is TRIM REQUIRED
and if it is, we're going to proceed
to the removeThornsStep.
So let's go ahead and add that configuration.
And the next thing that we'll need to do
is specify what we'll do if these flowers
do not have thorns.
So from the selectFlowersStep,
we're going to look at the ExitStatus
and if it's NO TRIM REQUIRED,
then we're going to proceed directly
to our arrangeFlowersStep.
Now, we're also going to be arranging flowers
in the event we remove the thorns.
It's just going to occur at a different point in time.
So we'll want to go ahead
and include that step as well
within our configuration.
And then finally, we don't want to arrange the flowers twice
so we'll go ahead and remove that step
and then we need to specify the end method
and at this point, our job is configured.
Okay, so let's save everything
and we'll head over to the console
and you'll notice within the directory
for this project, I've included another script
and this script, if we take a look at this,
it's going to run our flowers job
and that job takes in our type parameter.
So there we can see that we can pass a parameter
into the script and it will ultimately be passed
as a job parameter to our job.
So I'm going to go ahead and clear this.
And at this point, we're now able to run our flowers_job
and I'm going to run it with roses
and we should see our removeThornsStep invoked.
Okay, so here we can see that we gathered the flowers
for the order.
You can then see our StepExecutionListener
had its after step logic invoked.
We can also see the before step logic was invoked as well
and it was determined
that we need to remove the thorns from the roses
and then we proceeded to arrange the flowers
for the order.
So that concludes our lesson
and we saw how to introduce a StepExecutionListener
that is capable of executing logic both before
and after a step.